Recursion

In your own words, what is Recursion?
    A function which calls itself. It must have an exit condition.
Why is it necessary to have a Base Case?
    So you don't get stuck in an infinite loop or lock up all the memory in your system.

Graphs
What is a Graph?
    Like a tree it is composed of nodes which point to other nodes.
How is a Graph different from a Tree?
    Nodes can point to more than one node and have multiple parents. These are loops/cycles.
Give an example of somthing that would be good to model with a Graph.
    A network such as that described by LinkedIn.

    Futurefarmers made a piece that showed all of the people who sat on corporate boards and how they related to each other when someone sat on more than one board.

    Instructional diagrams for building something like a shed where you have several separate tasks to complete before assembling a final product.


Fill in the runtimes for the following actions for the table below:

Data Structure                  Index   Search  Add-R   Add-L   Pop-L   Pop-R
Python List (Array)             O(1)    O(n)    O(1)    O(n)    O(n)    O(1)
Linked List                     O(n)    O(n)    O(n)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)   ***assumes tracking head only
Doubly-Linked List              O(n)    O(n)    O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(1)
Queue (as Array)                X       X       O(1)    X       O(n)    X
Queue (as LL or DLL)            X       X       O(1)    X       O(1)    X
Stack (as Array, LL, or DLL)    X       X       O(1)    X       X       O(1) 
Deque (as DLL)                  X       X       O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(1)     





Data Structure          Get     Add     Delete  Iterate Memory
Dictionary (Hash Map)   O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)    medium
Set (Hash Map)          O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)    medium                   
Binary Search Tree      O(log n)O(n^2)  O(n^2)  O(n)    a little            
Tree                    O(n)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)    a little    

NOTE: Don't understand why iterating is O(1). It's only O(1) if we're only moving one step. Are we only moving one step, not walking the whole tree?



Sorting

Describe in words how the Bubble Sort algorithm works.
    The biggest value always bubbles up to the right. 
    So always starting with first item in list
    Compare it to next item in list.
    If it is > than item being compared to, swap positions with that item.
    Keep checking it against every index position
    Since you know the largest item is at the end, each loop, you can reduce the length of items being checked against by 1.

Describe in words how the Merge Sort algorithm works.
    You keep dividing the list of items to be sorted by half.
    Do this until you arrive at a bunch of lists that only contain one item (one item is always sorted)
    Then start recombining the individual lists.
    Create a new list by checking the 1st value of each list, pop of the lowest value, and append to a new list
    Return the list to the the calling function.
    Goes down than back up each individual branch of the sort/tree

Describe in words how the Quick Sort algorithm works.
    No idea. Didn't understand it all from the lecture.

Git Branching

Give an instance when you would use git branching.
    When I want to work on a feature in a multiperson team. Allows me to make changes without interfering with other peoples work.

What is a pull request?
    After I have made changes I am confident about and pushed them to my branch on Github, I can ask the gatekeeper to merge my change into the master branch.

    
